in this lecture,
we're going to go over how to modify a node application so that it can serve static assets
like CSS files,
static JavaScript files,
fab icons and images.
So before we start modifying the APP,
let's create a folder full of assets that are going to need to be served something to make
a new directory and call it public.
Now let's create some files within that directory.
I'm going to create a CSS file for the application.
I'm gonna create a client side javascript file.
You can see them getting created here.
Now we want to add a fabrikant dot i CEO,
a logo file and just a test J pick,
rather than going into a drawing program and creating these images and files.
And now I'm just going to use ones that I've created for this lecture and paste the man.
If you want these files,
you can go to the get hub that's linked from this lecture.
Go into the public folder.
You'll see fabric conduct I CEO logo dot PNG and test J Peg all in there,
and you can go ahead and use those so you can see,
I guess,
placed these three files in here now within the app dot Js file.
I'm just going to note that this is the front and logic for the application,
and all that's going to do so far is create and an object and then log out.
Hello,
Concert world.
We should see that within the chrome console.
When we go to inspect the page that's rendered with an app dot CSS.
I'm going to add a bunch of styles just to clean up what we've done so far.
I'm going to note that this is the CSS styles for the application.
Now I'm going to create a bunch of CSS that I don't want to waste your time with here
because this isn't a front end course.
But if you want the CSS that we're going to be using Utkan,
go ahead and grab it from the get hub.
When you get the version on get Hub,
you'll see that this file is going to be changing with each lecture to only include the
styles that are relevant to the particular lecture code that you're looking at.
But I am just pasting in really all the CSS that we're going to need and you're welcome to
browse through it.
You can find this final style sheet within a folder called Final.
Within the section that we're in right now.
You can see that includes some resets,
the main color palette styles for the index page and then styles for the account creation
page and all the other pages on the site.
We won't be returning to the CSS file again in this lecture,
so I'll just leave it to you to look more deeply into it if you feel like it.
We will,
however,
be adding pieces of front and logic to the application in the app dot Js file as these
lectures go on because while that is a front and thing,
I do want to at least briefly go over how we're using client side Ajax to interact with the
rest for a P I that we built.
Now we are going to add some logic to the application so that it can serve the static file
CSS JavaScript I CEO and images that we've created.
Before we do that,
though,
let me just modify this header so that it's going to have some real links in it.
Home is going to go to slash Sign up should go to account slash create log in should go to
session slash Create the dashboard should go to checks.
Oh,
the account settings page should be account slash edit and log out for now is just going to
be a pound symbol later on.
Will buying the log out button to actually log you out?
And then we direct you to the logged out page.
Now,
as you can see in this header file,
things like app dot Js are served from a public directory.
The directories actually call it public,
which corresponds to the border that it's really in.
So we need to go to our server and add a route.
Call it public.
Also,
since fabric Conduct I CEO should be served from the base directory,
not from the public folder,
just by convention,
we need to add that as well.
So we're going to add a route called Con that I C E.
O.
Which is going to be handled by handlers dot fabric on,
and we want a public route.
There's handled by handlers dot public.
Now let's go to our handlers file and actually write those handlers.
But though the index handler,
I'm going to create a fabric on handler first.
So handlers dot fabric Khan is just like any other out takes in data and a call back.
And just like the index,
we're going to reject any method that isn't get and return a four or five if it is a get we
actually want to serve the fabric on.
So we want to read in the fabric Cons data.
So for that,
we're going to call the helper that we haven't written yet called helpers dot get static
asset.
We're going to say that the static asset is farrakhan dot ceo.
Then we're going to expect an air,
and I have climbed dated to come back.
If there isn't a right and there is data we're going to continue,
otherwise we're gonna call back 500.
If everything is fine,
we're just gonna call back the data which will look like call back 200 call back the raw
data of the fabric con,
and then tell the server that the type that we're calling back it's not Jason,
and it's not hte email.
It's actually going to be fabric are.
So when we go back to our server file.
We're going to need to modify it to accept a Fabrikant type as well.
Now we're going to write another handler that just serves all the public assets that are
within the public directory and any that we will be adding later.
This is gonna be for public assets.
I'm gonna pay.
Stay at the top of the fabric on Hammer and then modify some things so handlers dot public
going to take in the same things and reject anything that isn't a get method with the four
or five.
But for this method since thes u r l requester coming in as public slash something,
we have to determine what actual file is being requested.
So get the file name being requested in order to figure out what they're asking for.
We need to trim the word public off of the string that we're seeing in the path so trimmed
asset name is going to equal data trimmed path replaced the string public with an empty
string.
Now we want to say that if the trimmed asset name has a length greater zero,
we'll continue.
Otherwise we're gonna call back for four.
Now that we know which asked that they're asking for inside of the public quarter.
We want to read in the assets data,
and we're going to do that the same way that we did above,
except instead of reading in fabric on dot I see Oh,
we're just going to read in trimmed asset name and then expect back the data of whatever
that asset is.
So if there isn't an error and there is data we want to continue otherwise we still want to
call back before four because we couldn't find the asset that they're looking for now,
In order to call back the data of this asset,
we first need to determine what kind of asset it is,
what kind of mime type or what kind of file extension it has.
So that when we call back,
for example,
the Fabrikant data,
as we're doing here,
we can say that this is a type fabric on.
Otherwise,
we don't know whether to tell our server they should be serving this as Jason or serving it
is HTML or serving as something else.
So we are going to look at the file name again and determine what the content type should
be.
We want to determine the content type and default to plain text if we can't figure it out.
So we're going to start off by saying the content type equals playing.
If the trimmed asset name contains the string dot CSS,
then we want to say that the content type equals CSS.
I'm gonna copy this logic again because we are going to use it a few times.
If the asset name contains dot P and G,
that content type is going to be P and G.
If it contains dot jpeg,
the content type is going to be Jay Peak.
If it contains dot i CEO because instead of requesting the i c e o the fabric on at the
base,
you're out there requesting it from the public folder here.
Then we still want to be able to serve it from there,
and the content type is going to equal Fabrikant.
Then we want to call back the data.
So we're going to say call back 200 the data and the content.
Now that we've done this,
we can go and return to our server file and modify it so that it can accept all these
content types that it currently could not.
So we're gonna go to the section.
We're currently only choosing between Jason Html and add support for all these other
content types.
So we'll leave the payload string defined.
If content type is Jason,
that's what we want to do if content type because html that's what we want to do.
But now we're gonna copy this html block down below,
because we want to add on logic for fabric con plain text,
CSS,
PNG and JPEG.
So we're going to say if the content type is Fabrikant,
we want to set the header content.
Type two equal image slash X dash icon.
If the content type is CSS,
we want to set the header content type to text slash CSS.
If it's P and G,
we want to set the header to Image slash p and G.
If it's J.
Peg,
we want to set the header to image slash J P e G Drew Peg.
And if the content type is plain,
then we want to set the content type to text slash claim,
and that would be the default.
But before this works,
we referenced some helpers a moment ago in our handlers get static asset to be specific.
And so now,
within helpers,
we need to write.
He gets static asset function.
So down at the bottom of the file,
we're going to write this new function,
which is going to let us get the contents of a static,
a k a.
Public acid.
It's going to be called helpers dot get static asset.
It's going to be a function that,
as you've seen,
takes in a file name and they call back,
It's gonna Saturday.
Check the file.
Name equals type of file name,
People's String and Fire.
Name length is greater than zero bio name or force.
It's only going to continue if there was a real file name found.
Otherwise,
it's going to call back the air.
Valid final name was not specified.
Get the file name is there.
Then we need to define the public directory folder much in the same way we defined the data
folder and the templates border before that.
So we're going to say that public they're equals path.
Join directory name and join it to slash,
dot,
slash public slash.
Now we're going to try to read the file in so f s dot reid file the public directory plus
the final name,
and it should give back an air and data.
If there's no air and there is data,
we'll go ahead and call back.
No air and data.
But if we hit an air,
we'll call back.
No file could be found.
Now that that helper exists,
our handlers should be able to read in the aesthetic assets.
That's both the public handler and our Fabrikant handler.
So if we start the at back up,
we should be able to render this new page with the static assets being served,
I'm gonna go back to the browser.
Refresh here.
We haven't seen the CSS change here,
so the CSS is not loading.
And now we just need to figure out why.
Look at the network.
Refresh the page.
See if we have any indication.
Yes,
we are getting a 404 from the app dot CSS public route.
And so now we need to figure out why.
Yes,
this is because within our server file,
we have defined this route.
Public handlers,
not public.
But these routes don't take any kind of wild cards.
This route is on Lee going to match the public path.
Exactly.
So the only way hammers dot public is going to get cold right now is if these assets were
sitting exactly at slash public,
which they're not there sitting at slash public slash their own name.
So we actually need to modify our server logic just a little bit so that public slash
anything,
for example,
public slash star ends up getting around it to the hammers dot public handler.
So when we are choosing a handler,
we just need to add a little bit more logic.
If the request is within the public directory,
use the public handler instead.
So we want to say chosen handler,
defined above equals trimmed path index of public slash greater than negative one.
In other words,
if the path that the requesting includes the string public slash anything,
then we want to switch from whatever chosen handler we just got.
Whether it is the 44 handler or some other handler,
two handlers don't public otherwise default to the chosen handler,
whatever it waas.
So in this case,
this path we created down here is on Lee getting called.
If somebody references slash public and doesn't include anything.
So now we should be able to start our server back up and try that again.
I'm going to refresh and good.
Now we can see that app dot CSS is being returned,
but we still don't see this style is changing,
which means we still have some issue somewhere.
If I open up the app dot CSS that got returned,
we can see that the content type is coming back to us correctly,
but the response is empty and we should see CSS inside of there.
So let's go back to her half and try to figure out why it looks like the issue is that we
are making sure that the payload is always a strain before he read it out.
But on second consideration,
we have to realize that hte email will be a string.
But fabric cons and others will be buffers that have been read in from a file and so they
will fail this validation.
So rather than saying that the payload should be a string for all of these types were just
going to say that the payload should not be undefined.
We start the at back up and try it one more time.
All right.
Looks like we have some CSS appearing.
So things are working well.
But if we look in the console and refresh,
we don't see that log that we put in app dot Js Also,
the network does not show app dot Js as being loaded at all.
So if you view source,
we can still see that the application is referencing public slash ap dot Js So we just have
to figure out what else the issue might be.
It might very well be that were mixed spelling text slash javascript we missed in a in Java
script.
So I'll make that edit and try again.
Now we refreshing this refreshing this and we can see app dot Js is getting loaded in the
console.
We can see Hello console world.
So the CSS is getting loaded.
The JavaScript is getting loaded.
Now let's try to navigate to the images that we placed.
Let's check public slash logo dot p and G and we see this logo.
This is being transmitted to us with the content type image slash p a G.
Now let's navigate to test JPEG and see there we have Dave Chappelle staring at us,
and this JPEG is being transmitted with the content type image slash Jay Peak.
So those images should be working fine.
Now we want to modify the template so that the logo appears in the upper left hand corner.
So within the logo a tag,
I'm gonna add an image tag and the source is going to equal public slash logo because of
the base.
Ural again,
we don't need to reference a backslash there.
Public's last logo dot p and G.
Now we can refresh this page,
and we see the logo in the upper left hand corner.
Now,
one thing you're not seeing is the Fabrikant up here.
But that is because browser's tend to heavily cash the fabric on whether it exists or it
doesn't.
If we navigate to the fabric on that i c e o.
We can see this small black dot here indicating that it actually does exist and we can
inspect it and see the fabric gone is getting transmitted.
The response exists,
and it's coming through with image slash X icon as the content type.
Now we have static assets serving,
working fine and we can move on to the next lecture where we will be creating the basic
scaffolding for the index page.